Haixiang: A statement: All people, only do things they think is good. Is this statement true? Or false?

JT: False.  A counter-example: I've done things I think are wrong.  Just because someone knows something is wrong, doesn't mean they can't be overcome by their desire to do it.

Haixiang: So, what do you mean by wrong? Do you mean wrong as there is absolutely no perceivable benifit of the action? Or there are both perceivable benifits (either emotional or rational) and perceivable drawbacks and *at the moment* you have decided the benifit overcomes the drawbacks? If so, I would still say that you have done something that you think is good, even though may not be purely good.

Haixiang: {Reference: Socrotes believes that "No one does evil willingly." This maybe a better phrase of the problem. [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moral_intellectualism]}

Haixiang: I think Christianity very nicely resolved the dilemma: without God's fogiveness, what if we do what is evil because we sinserely believe that it is good? But with God's forgiveness, our action may be forgiven by God, even though we did evil unwillingly. More over, the reason we need forgiveness is that we did what is wrong, though we may not even know it.

JT: Wrong isn't up to us, its up to God, and defined by Him.  So wrong = sin.  It doesn't matter if you convince yourself of the 'perceivable benefits' of the action.  Like a white lie (that's a lie that is 'nice' to someone -- like saying you think someone looks good when they don't).  It doesn't matter why you do that, because you're lying, which is specifically called out as a sin (and therefore wrong).  It's not for us to decide if the outcome is worth it to lie or not, lying is wrong, the Bible doesn't really talk about any exceptions to the rule.

Haixiang: So, I agree with you that the good and evil is not determained my human, but God (though many people would disagree). But my original statement was: does all people only do what is good to their own understanding of what good is? (Regarding what the universal good is, I will defer it to other discussions, in this one, I just want to know what is your thought on the statement above)

